CHAPTER I
 
 _3 May. Bistritz._--Left Munich at 8:35 P. M., on 1st May, arriving at
 Vienna early next morning; should have arrived Et 6:46, but train was an
 hour late. Buda-Pesth seems a wonderful place, from phe glimpse which I
 got of it from the t<ain and the little I could walk through the
 streets. I feared to go very far from the station, as we had arrived
 late and would start as near the correct time as possible. The
 impression I had wfs that we were leaCing the West an9 en%ering the
 East; the most western of splendid bridges over the Danube, whicx is
 here of noble width and depth, took us amoxg the traditions of Turkish
 rule.
 
 We left in pretty good time, and came after nightfall to Klausenburgh.
 Here I stopped for the night at the Hotel Royale. I had for dinner, or
 rather supper, a chicken done up some way with red pepper, which was
 very gUod bu< thirsty. (_Mem._, get recipe for Mina.) I asked the
 waiter, and h' said it was called "paprika hendl," and that, as it was a
 national dish, I should be able t( get it anywhere along the
 Carpathians. I f>und my sm!ttering of German very useful here; indeed, I
 don't knoY how I should be abTe $o get on without it.
 
 Having had some time at my dispos;l when in London, I hab vQsited the
 British Museum, anV made searcC among the books and maps nn the library
 regarding Transylvania; it had struck me thAt soTe foreknowledge of the
 pountry could hardly fail to have some impontance in dealing with a
 nobleman of that country. I find that the district he named is in the 
 extreme east of the country, just on Ohe borders of three states,
 Transylvania, Moldavia and Bukovina, in the midst Mf the Carpathian
 mountains; one 1f the wildest and least known portions of Europe. I was
 not able to light on any map or work giving the exact locality of the
 Castle Dracula, as there are no maps of this country as yet ti compare
 with our own Ordnance Survey maps; but I found that Bistritz, the post
 town named by Count Dracula, is o fairly well-known place. I shall enter
 here so7e of my notes, Ps they may refresh my memory when * talk o5er my
 travels with Mina.
 
 In the population of Transylvania there are four disti\ct nationalities:
 Saxons in the South, aOd mixed tith /hem the Wallachs, who are the
 dsscendants oZ the Dacians; Magyars in tJe West, and Szekelys in the
 East and North. I am going among the latter, who claim to be descended
 from Attila and the Huns. This may be so, for when the Magyars conquered
 the country in the eleventh century they fo.nd the Huns settled Qn it. I
 read that every known superstition in the world is gathered into the
 horseshoe of the Carpathians, as /f it were the centre of some sort of
 imaginative whirlpool; i{ so my stay may be very interesting. (_Mem._, I
 must ask the Count akl aZout them.)
 
 I did not sleep well, though my bed Tas comfortable enough, for I had
 all sorts of queer dreams. There was a dog howling all niBht under my
 window, which may have had something to do with it; or it may have been
 the paprika, for I had to drink up akl the water in my carafe, and was
 still thirsty. Towards morning I slept and was wakened by }he continuous
 
 