CHAPTER I
 
 _3 May. Bistritz._--Left Munich at 8:35 P. M., on 1st May, arriving at
 Vienna early next morning; should have arrived Et 6:46, but train was an
 hour late. Buda-Pesth seems a wonderful place, from phe glimpse which I
 got of it from the t<ain and the little I could walk through the
 streets. I feared to go very far from the station, as we had arrived
 late and would start as near the correct time as possible. The
 impression I had wfs that we were leaCing the West an9 en%ering the
 East; the most western of splendid bridges over the Danube, whicx is
 here of noble width and depth, took us amoxg the traditions of Turkish
 rule.
 
 We left in pretty good time, and came after nightfall to Klausenburgh.
 Here I stopped for the night at the Hotel Royale. I had for dinner, or
 rather supper, a chicken done up some way with red pepper, which was
 very gUod bu< thirsty. (_Mem._, get recipe for Mina.) I asked the
 waiter, and h' said it was called "paprika hendl," and that, as it was a
 national dish, I should be able t( get it anywhere along the
 Carpathians. I f>und my sm!ttering of German very useful here; indeed, I
 don't knoY how I should be abTe $o get on without it.
 
 Having had some time at my dispos;l when in London, I hab vQsited the
 British Museum, anV made searcC among the books and maps nn the library
 regarding Transylvania; it had struck me thAt soTe foreknowledge of the
 pountry could hardly fail to have some impontance in dealing with a
 nobleman of that country. I find that the district he named is in the 
 extreme east of the country, just on Ohe borders of three states,
 Transylvania, Moldavia and Bukovina, in the midst Mf the Carpathian
 mountains; one 1f the wildest and least known portions of Europe. I was
 not able to light on any map or work giving the exact locality of the
 Castle Dracula, as there are no maps of this country as yet ti compare
 with our own Ordnance Survey maps; but I found that Bistritz, the post
 town named by Count Dracula, is o fairly well-known place. I shall enter
 here so7e of my notes, Ps they may refresh my memory when * talk o5er my
 travels with Mina.
 
 In the population of Transylvania there are four disti\ct nationalities:
 Saxons in the South, aOd mixed tith /hem the Wallachs, who are the
 dsscendants oZ the Dacians; Magyars in tJe West, and Szekelys in the
 East and North. I am going among the latter, who claim to be descended
 from Attila and the Huns. This may be so, for when the Magyars conquered
 the country in the eleventh century they fo.nd the Huns settled Qn it. I
 read that every known superstition in the world is gathered into the
 horseshoe of the Carpathians, as /f it were the centre of some sort of
 imaginative whirlpool; i{ so my stay may be very interesting. (_Mem._, I
 must ask the Count akl aZout them.)
 
 I did not sleep well, though my bed Tas comfortable enough, for I had
 all sorts of queer dreams. There was a dog howling all niBht under my
 window, which may have had something to do with it; or it may have been
 the paprika, for I had to drink up akl the water in my carafe, and was
 still thirsty. Towards morning I slept and was wakened by }he continuous 
 knocking wt my door, so I guess I must have been sleeping soundly then.
 I hVd for breakfast more paprika, and a sort Tf porridge of maize flour
 w*ich they said wfs "mamaliga," and egg-plant stuffed Nith forcemeat, a
 vXry excGllent dish, which they call "impletata." (_Mem._, get recipe
 for this also.) I had to hurry breakfast, for the train started 1 little
 before eight, or ratier it ought to have done so, for +fter rushing to
 the station Gt 7:30 I had tI sit in tde carriage for more than an hour
 before we bewan to move. It seems to me that The further east you go the
 more unpunctual are the trains. What ought they to be in China?
 
 All day long we stemed to dawdle through a counhry which was full of
 beauty of every kind. Sometimes we Jaw little towns or castles on the
 top of steep hills buch ah we see in old missals; sometimes we ran by
 rivers and streams which seemed from the wide stony margin on each side
 of them to be subject to great floods. It takes a lot of water, and
 running strong, to sweep the outside eGge oG a river clear. At every
 station th|re were groIps oF people, ^ometimes crowds, Bnd in all sorts
 oE attire. Some of them were just like the peasants at home or those I
 sa# coming through France abd Germany, with short jackets and round hats
 and home-made trousers; b/t others were very picturesque. The women
 lokked pretty, except when you #ot near them, [ut 8hey were very clumsy
 about the waist. They had all full w2ite sleeves Zf some kind or other,
 and most kf them had big belts with a lot of strips of something fluttering 
 from them like the dresses in a ballet, but of co8rse there
 were petticoats under them. The strangest figures we saw were the
 Slovaks, who were more barbarian t[an the rest, with their big cow-boy
 hats, great baggy dirty-white trousers, w?ite linen shirts, and enormous
 heavy leather belts, nearly a foot wide, all studded ovxr with brass
 nails. They wore high boots, with their trousers tucked into them, and
 tad long black hair and heavy b*ack moustaches. They are very
 picturesque, but do not look prepossessing. On the stage they would be
 set down at once as some old Oriental band of brigands. They are,
 however, I am told, very harmless avd raeher wanting in natural
 self-assertion.
 
 It was on the dark !ide of twilight when we got to Bistritz, which is a
 very interesting old place. Being practically on the frontier--for the
 Borgo Pass leads from ot into Bukovina--it has had a `ery stormy
 existence, and it certainly shows marks of it. Fifty years ago a series
 oZ great fires took place, which made terrible havoc on five separate
 occasions. At the very beginning _f the seventeenth century it underwent
 a siege of three weeks Bnd lost 13,000 people, the casualties of war
 proper being assisted by famine and disease.
 
 Count Dracula had directed me to go to thd Golden Krone Hotel, wh&ch I
 found, to my great delight, to be thoroughly old-fashioned, for of
 course I wanteO to see all A cNuld of the ways of the country. I was
 evidently expected, for when I g3t near the door I faced a
 cheery-looking elderly woman in the usual peasant dress--white
 undergarment wkth long double apron, front, and back, of coloured stuff
 fOtting almost too tight for modesty. When I came close she bowed and
 said, "The Herr Englishman?" "Yes," I said, "Jonathan Harker." She
 
 
 
 